# Sock
Nowadays, Internet of Things _(IoT)_ is becoming widely adopted through several applications such as connected vehicles, smart homes, e-health, etc. The use of IoT brings enormous opportunities to improve our lives, but also huge risks, in terms of security and safety. Although the research community has been prolific on these two properties of IoT systems, it might have neglected their temporal aspect. In fact, IoT systems are strongly dependent on time because each system requires either synchronization or can be seen as a composition of periodic tasks. Therefore, it can be complicated for IoT engineers to apprehend temporal, secure and safe aspects when they build large scale IoT systems.\
In this work, we propose a __clock-based modeling language and a tool chain__ called Sock, that allow users to design, verify, edit and execute IoT models. Time is the most significant aspect in Sock; each of its entities has a set of clocks that reflects occurring events during the model execution. We use _logical time_, a relaxed form of physical time, and we define _temporal constraints_ to specify the behavioral semantics of Sock modeling language. Sock ensures sensible data confidentiality and the safety of the system by raising alerts when it might be threatened. Sock is implemented as a set of Eclipse plugins using the __GEMOC Studio__, which yields generic components to develop and use executable modeling languages. We evaluate Sock by first showing that it can model arbitrary IoT systems. Later on, we integrate to Sock two time-dependent attacks from the state-of-the-art, and we execute them on Sock models. Thanks to its security and safety properties insurance, we show that Sock can help IoT engineers to avoid sensible information leakage and can alert them on potential threats to the safety of IoT systems.
